>> Richard Feldman: Welcome everybody,
this is Advanced Elm.
So hopefully, you've had a chance
to go through the instructions and
get all set up.
You should already have your
local server running and
be able to see the you're all set screen.
If so, good to go,
be all set for the exercises.
Okay, so, gonna start off with a little
introduction to what we're gonna
be going over in the course.
I'm gonna give a little bit of
background about this course,
talk about some goals, and
then give an outline of sort of everything
that we're gonna be going through today.
Finally I'll wrap up with just
the overall structure of the workshop.
So some background, basically the way that
this workshop sort of came about is I have
personally undergone this transition
of starting off doing Elm as a hobby,
then doing Elm at work and
then eventually doing Elm at scale.
So now I've been doing Elm for about four
years, we've got about a quarter million
lines of Elm code at work in production,
and I use it every day at work.
And so over this period of time
I've learned a lot about Elm, and
I've also started to see other people
go through a similar transition.
Where they started off doing Elm as a
hobby, and then started doing Elm at work.
And then are sort of looking to grow from
maybe introducing it at work, to using it
at scale, or maybe just go from Using
it as a hobby to using it at work.
And sort of understanding the challenges
that come with going from, sort of,
Elm at a small scale to
Elm at a large scale.
So I observed that with my interactions
with the community a lot of
frequently ask questions that people have
as they sort of go through these things.
And I've also sort of
solicited from people,
what are the topics that
people want to hear about?
So based on all of that, I ended up sort
of putting together this course that, or,
sort of, the culmination of the things
that I think will be the most valuable
to talk about for anyone who's
going through this transition from
sort of Elm as a side thing to Elm
as a full scale serious Elm project.
And the goal is that we
will end up with something
that will be valuable to you as
you're going through this transition.
Some more specific goals is to
talk about these four things.
One is how to rule out more
problems at compile time.
Obviously we get a lot of
benefit from Elm's compiler just
giving us a lot of help as we
structure our applications.
But with certain techniques,
we can actually give it the ability to
help us even more and help it help us.
Another is how to organize and
scale Elm applications.
There's some techniques that you can use
that will make that process go better than
just sort of like taking what you
started with and just doing that more.
We'll talk about what
those techniques are.
Talking about how to reuse parts of a user
interface, this is something that comes up
because I think it's something
that Elm does pretty uniquely.
There aren't any other virtual DOM systems
that do this quite the same way that
Elm does.
And so we're gonna talk about
reuse as a general topic and
how to do it effectively in Elm.
And finally we're just gonna talk
about how to manage external data and
that has to do with both JSON as
well as dealing with JavaScript and
also with dealing with the server
authentication things like that.
So all these sources of external data and
how we manage them within
our Elm applications.
So the outline of the course,
we're gonna have eight sections.
The first one is going to be Opaque Types.
The second one is going to
be about Extensible Data.
Third is Creating Constraints.
Fourth is Scaling.
Fifth is Reuse then Sources of Truth,
Decoding and
finally Single-Page applications.
So we're gonna go through these
over the course of the day.
We're gonna have a mix of
slides like we have here and
looking through code examples.
Plenty of opportunities to ask questions.
And by the end of it,
we should have a much better
understanding of each of these topics.
You might notice there's a theme of these
sort of it's a focus on techniques.
One of the things that people asked
me about when I was first doing
this course was they would ask
about specific libraries, so
things like hey can I
learn how to do Elm CSS?
Or can I learn how to
use style elements or
can I learn how to use testing
libraries more effectively?
But I ended up with this set of topics
that focuses a lot more on techniques than
specific libraries.
Basically because I think these
are skills that translates no matter what
library we are using.
Even the section of decoding although
it's specific to a particular packages it
talks about patterns that appear
in many other packages and elms.
So these are skills that I think are going
to be more broadly applicable no matter
what your particular use case is, no
matter what particular set of packages and
libraries you decide
to use on application.
So hopefully, that will give you the best
possible value for time together.
The structure of the workshop, if you
were at my introduction to Elm workshop,
or looked at it, this will be familiar.
We're going to use the RealWorld example
app, which is the Elm SPA example, and
it looks like this.
It's called a conduit,
which is cuz it's a medium clone.
Medium, conduit, ha ha.
So basically the purpose of this
project is that they have made a lot of
applications, I say they but
it's different open source contributors,
have made various different example
applications all to the same spec.
So there's a React one, there's the Elm
one that I made, there's Angular View,
all these different front ends
all built to the same specs so
you can kind of compare them.
And it's got a lot of different
features about articles, posting them,
editing them, you can follow people,
unfollow people, favorite things,
sign in, sign out, sign up,
all those sort of things that you
expect from a single page application.
So we are gonna use this as sort of
foundation for all of our examples,
we're gonna be looking through a lot of
code with this, and hopefully by the end
of it you'll also have a better
understanding of that code base and
can use it as a reference point
if you haven't been already.
Like we said,
there's gonna be eight lessons.
There's also going to be eight
exercises to go with the lessons.
So after each lesson, we're gonna stop and
do an exercise based on
what we just learned.